Debuntu Setup Scripts
=====================

As collection of shell-functions to install and setup things in your
Debian/Ubuntu box.

Properties
----------

-   All functions are collected conveniently in one file:
    `/bin/debuntu_fun.sh`.

-   Sourcing this file will have no side effects besides defining
    functions. 

-   There is no dependency on any tool or platform to run a function. No
    ruby, python, or whatever is required.

-   Every function is "namespaced" under `debuntu_...`.

-   Every function is indempotent, i.e. calling a function once, twice,
    or more shall have the same result.

-   Applying a function can be destructive! E.g. `torquebox_install_...`
    will stop the current instance, possibly remove the installed
    version (including all deployed applications!), and reinstall
    torquebox from scratch.

Usage examples
--------------

Source the (stable) functions:

    source <(curl https://raw.github.com/DrTom/debuntu_setup_scripts/master/bin/debuntu_fun.sh)

Alternatively source from the wip (work in progress) branch: 

    source <(curl https://raw.github.com/DrTom/debuntu_setup_scripts/wip/bin/debuntu_fun.sh)

See which scripts are available:

    declare -F | grep debuntu

Have a closer look at one of them:

    declare -f debuntu_system_setup_vim

    > debuntu_system_setup_vim ()
    > {
    >     apt-get install --assume-yes vim-nox;
    >     update-alternatives --set editor /usr/bin/vim.nox
    > }

Invoke it:

    debuntu_system_setup_vim


You can invoke a function as some other user: 

    debuntu_invoke_as_user thomas  debuntu_ruby_rbenv_install_jruby_1.7.4

The originating user must have permissions to substitute the user identity via
`su`. The target user should have set `bash` as his default login shell. 


Documentation
-------------

### Callgraph

The 
[call-graph](https://rawgithub.com/DrTom/debuntu_setup_scripts/master/doc/call_graph.svg)
([direct link](doc/call_graph.svg))
shows an overview of the functions invoking each other. This comes handy to
prevent errors when functions are renamed, removed, or the signature is
changed.

The visualization can be rebuild by invoking `./doc/build_call_graph.rb` from
the top-level directory. It requires `ruby`, some ruby libraries, and
[Graphwiz](http://www.graphviz.org/).


Extending and contributing
--------------------------

-   `bin/debuntu_fun.sh` is generated from the scripts (not functions!)
    located in `src`.

-   Invoking `build` will perform the generation. 

-   `build` requires an installed ruby interpreter but it is very simple.
    Any ruby version will do!
